# BIOMD0000000236: 

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000236.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000236.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is the extended model described in eq. 2 of the article:  
**A model of phosphofructokinase and glycolytic oscillations in the pancreatic beta-cell. **   
Westermark PO and Lansner A. _Biophys J._ 2003 Jul;85(1):126-39. PMID:
[12829470](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12829470), doi:[10.1016/S0006-34
95(03)74460-9](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0006-3495\(03\)74460-9)  
**Abstract:**   
We have constructed a model of the upper part of the glycolysis in the
pancreatic beta-cell. The model comprises the enzymatic reactions from
glucokinase to glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPD). Our results
show, for a substantial part of the parameter space, an oscillatory behavior
of the glycolysis for a large range of glucose concentrations. We show how the
occurrence of oscillations depends on glucokinase, aldolase and/or GAPD
activities, and how the oscillation period depends on the phosphofructokinase
activity. We propose that the ratio of glucokinase and aldolase and/or GAPD
activities are adequate as characteristics of the glucose responsiveness,
rather than only the glucokinase activity. We also propose that the rapid
equilibrium between different oligomeric forms of phosphofructokinase may
reduce the oscillation period sensitivity to phosphofructokinase activity.
Methodologically, we show that a satisfying description of phosphofructokinase
kinetics can be achieved using the irreversible Hill equation with allosteric
modifiers. We emphasize the use of parameter ranges rather than fixed values,
and the use of operationally well-defined parameters in order for this
methodology to be feasible. The theoretical results presented in this study
apply to the study of insulin secretion mechanisms, since glycolytic
oscillations have been proposed as a cause of oscillations in the ATP/ADP
ratio which is linked to insulin secretion.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models. It is copyright (c) 2005-2009 The BioModels Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use [Le Nov√®re N., Bornstein B., Broicher
A., Courtot M., Donizelli M., Dharuri H., Li L., Sauro H., Schilstra M.,
Shapiro B., Snoep J.L., Hucka M. (2006) BioModels Database: A Free,
Centralized Database of Curated, Published, Quantitative Kinetic Models of
Biochemical and Cellular Systems Nucleic Acids Res., 34: D689-D691.](http://ww
w.pubmedcentral.nih.gov/articlerender.fcgi?tool=pubmed&pubmedid=16381960)


